A free graduate Macroeconometrics textbook
==========================================

The goal of this project is to produce and maintain as a community a
free textbook/research monograph on Macroeconometrics suitable for
teaching a PhD elective and make it available through the [GNU Free
Documentation License][FDL].

There are a few reasons to do this. Perhaps the most important is that
there aren't appropriate textbooks for these classes: as far as I
know, Hamilton's *Time Series Analysis* is the most recent
comprehensive Econometric time-series book, but it was written in 1994
and doesn't cover many important recent developments.

The project is in early development (pre-alpha).  Use at your own
risk!

Chapters
--------

* Basic VARMA processes
* Estimating VARMA processes
* Structural Vector Autoregressions
* Stochastic integrals
* Cointegration

Project status
--------------

The author of this project is Gray Calhoun: <gcalhoun@iastate.edu>.  I
am not working on it very much right now, but will try to correct any
typos or other errors that are pointed out to me.

License
-------

Copyright © 2013 Gray Calhoun

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the [GNU Free Documentation License][FDL], Version
1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts and no Back-Cover
Texts. A copy of the license is included in the textbook Appendix "GNU
Free Documentation License" and in the file LICENSE.tex.

[FDL]: http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html

Dependencies and installation
-----------------------------

Either download a zip file from
<https://github.com/EconometricsLibrary/MacroeconometricsText> and
extract the source or clone the git repo.

To build the pdfs, you'll need XeLaTeX (you may need to install some
packages manually if you use an older LaTeX distribution) and GNU
Make.  The easiest way to generate the pdf is to type `make` in the
top directory of the project.

If `make` is unavailable, you can build the pdf manually.  Date and
version information are stored in the file `VERSION.tex` which can be 
generated with the command
```
echo "\\date{$(shell git show -s --date=short --format=%cd HEAD), \
  version $(shell git describe --tags)}" > VERSION.tex
```
The pdf can then be generated by typing
```
latexmk -xelatex textbook.tex
```
in the same directory.  Running
```
latexmk -c textbook.tex
```
will clean up most of the files that LaTeX created in the first step.

Thanks!
